You begin in a meadow with Lucius collecting flowers. (Why is Geoffrey
in the meadow?) Lucius strikes up a conversation, and tells you about
the land. He gives you the Travel spell, and a map of the local area
to Nothbehem. He joins the party and follows you around until you
arrive in town.

While in the party, Lucius can cast a simple healing spell when your
health is low, and make suggestions about what to do next. He can also
comment on things in the immediate environment, such as ruined walls
and/or megalithic structures.

You travel through meadows/hills/forest with Lucius, fighting wraiths
and a wolf or two along the way, until reaching Nothbehem. You may
encounter an ancient cave during this sequence, but since you don't
have the keys, you can't enter yet.

Lucius hangs around town, telling you to visit his grandfather Arturo
in the house with three skylights. Arturo is out front tending to the
stone well and some silverwood growing in a patch around a dead tree.

Arturo recognizes your clothing and tells you that you've traveled far
forward in time; exactly how far, he is unable to tell---only that the
rune-writings on your map seem more archaic to him than any he's seen,
yet are partially readable. He gives you a pair of silver leggings to
keep you warm in the snow. (Increase resistance of these.)

He hasn't traveled as far north as your map claims Valisade will be
found, but he relates a story to you about his expedition to the
frigid North on a failed quest to find the seer Amalia and her home.

He gives a warning about the cemeteries and crypts to the northeast
and gives you a sextant to help you find your way.

Arturo gives you a book with background information on Amalia, and a
partial account of the journey. He also gives you the Craft Silver
Arrows, two loaves of bread, and all the silverwood in the garden. 

Finally, Arturo tells you he's been saving a strange object found on
the expedition; a kind of copper gear or locking mechanism, associated
with the Ancients. He suspects that having two of them will unlock the
two copper doors in the ancient cave near town, but that he has only
ever found one of the gears. He gives it to you in the hope that you
can find your destination. He also gives you Amalia's quill pen.

He says also that he believes Alonso Pentaquin kept one of the gears,
but feared sharing it with Arturo due to wanting all the treasure to
himself.

Arturo is not sure where Alonso lives now, as the brothers are
bitterly estranged. He says he thinks Alonso lived in a cabin in the
Northwesterly Woods, but may have died or moved on.

During chapter 1 you can return to Arturo in town for healing and
additional supplies.

In Alonso's basement you find a 2nd gear.

The ancient cave near Nothbehem contains a bone flute and a note about
the screech owl. The note is addressed to a stone monk and talks about
his task of helping the Traveler. You also find the triangle time key.

You hear the first screech owl when you are in the right cemetery; she
tells you how to find the third gear to open the 3-gear gateway to
Part 2. She will land on and activate the correct tombstone, then
you find the gear.

Part 2 opens with you meeting the Stone Monk named in the letter from
the first cave. He tells you about the distortions in Time, that
Dr. Quine has long since died, and that Quine set up a system of
enchanted mechanical men to carry his knowledge into the distant
future you arrive in, to help prepare you for your task of saving
Ildron. 

You learn the Hold Creature spell and gain a Silver Bow. In another
silver cave you find Silver Armor, a copper gear, and a Triangle
timecube with a wax cylinder inside. Along the ancient road you can
also find caves holding timecubes with food, and a Protection
spell. These new spells are useful when you encounter Cryptghasts.

To the south of the Road you will find the Cypress, surrounded by
ruins and three Black Wizards, whom you must defeat. They are trying
to stop you from communicating with the Cypress.

When you have won, the screech owl returns and tells you a story about
the cypress that begins to sketch out the larger issues at play in the
story.

From the black wizards corpses you get the Magic Missile spell,
another copper gear, a conspiracy letter about killing the Traveler.
You also find their Cylindrophone, and can now play the first
cylinder.  The cylinder contains the voices of the demons trapped
within Mount Einhall, trying to work their influence on the Wizards.

When you find the 2nd stone monk in the cave with four doors, he tells
you he has more information from Dr. Quine. You get the Crystal Arrow
spell, the Warrior Time Key, Great Heal.

Part 3. A 3rd screech owl guides you to Amalia's burnt-out cabin where
you find the inkwell she used to write her final Prophecies.

After exiting the forest you cross the frozen river to the northeast,
encountering wraiths and skeleton archers.

You break through to a valley where the ruins of Valisade are
crumbling.  In the basement you find a warrior time cube with a 2nd
wax cylinder inside, and another gear. 

Playing the 2nd wax cylinder reveals that you must combine the inkwell
with the quill pen. Doing so after playing the cylinder will trigger
the endgame animation.


